---
title: 无障碍
date: 2020-08-12 14:32:33
tags:
---


### role属性
role是无障碍阅读，是给有阅读障碍的人设置的属性，有阅读障碍的人可以用读屏软件来解析

<pre>
In programing, Semantics refers to the meaning of a piece of code — for example "what effect does running that line of JavaScript have?", or "what purpose or role does that HTML element have" (rather than "what does it look like?".)
For example, the <h1> element is a semantic element, which gives the text it wraps around the role (or meaning) of "a top level heading on your page."


The aria-invalid attribute is used to indicate that the value entered into an input field does not conform to the format expected by the application.This may include formats such as email addresses or telephone numbers. aria-invalid can also be used to indicate that a required field has not been filled in.The attribute should be programmatically set as a result of a validation process.

This attribute can be used with any typical HTML form element; it is not limited to elements that have an ARIA role assigned.

WAI-ARIA is a specification written by the W3C, defining a set of additional HTML attributes that can be applied to elements to provide additional semantics and improve accessibility wherever it is lacking. There are three main features defined in the spec:


	•	Roles — These define what an element is or does. Many of these are so-called landmark roles, which largely duplicate the semantic value of HTML5 structural elements e.g. role="navigation" (<nav>) or role="complementary" (<aside>), but there are also others that describe different pages structures, such as role="banner", role="search", role="tabgroup", role="tab", etc., which are commonly found in UIs.
	•	Properties — These define properties of elements, which can be used to give them extra meaning or semantics. As an example, aria-required="true"specifies that a form input needs to be filled in to be valid, whereas aria-labelledby="label" allows you to put an ID on an element, then reference it as being the label for anything else on the page, including multiple elements, which is not possible using <label for="input">. As an example, you could use aria-labelledby to specify that a key description contained in a <div>is the label for multiple table cells, or you could use it as an alternative to image alt text — specify existing information on the page as an image's alt text, rather than having to repeat it inside the alt attribute. You can see an example of this at Text alternatives.
	•	States — Special properties that define the current conditions of elements, such as aria-disabled="true", which specifies to a screenreader that a form input is currently disabled. States differ from properties in that properties don't change throughout the lifecycle of an app, whereas states can change, generally programmatically via JavaScript.
An important point about WAI-ARIA attributes is that they don't affect anything about the web page, except for the information exposed by the browser's accessibility APIs (where screenreaders get their information from). WAI-ARIA doesn't affect webpage structure, the DOM, etc., although the attributes can be useful for selecting elements by CSS.

</pre>
